Page 1 of 1 
   
 PГҖВЈГҒГ°lPГҖ ВҘГҖjГғPГҒГ« ВҘГҒГҰВўГјPГҒgГҖ  
Karnataka Examinations Authority  
  
PGCET: 202 5 вҖ“ 26 
Number of MCQ questions for PGCET is 100. Each question carry one mark.  
Examination mode: Online (computer Based Test)  
Syllabus for PGCET in Master of Computer Applications (MCA)  
 
(1) Mathematics.  
(i)Algebra: Fundamental  operations  in Algebra,  Expansion,  Factorization,  Simultaneous 
Linear/ Quadratic  equations, Indices,  Logarithms, Arithmetic,  Geometric and Harmonic  
progressions, Binomial Theorem,  Permutations  and Combinations,  Determinants,  Matrices, 
Sets and application  to solution of  simultaneous  linear equations.  
(ii)Co-Ordinate Geometry:  Rectangular Cartesian co -ordinates, Equations of Line, Midpoint,  
Intersections , etc., Equations  of a  Circle, Distance  formulae, Pair of straight lines, Parabola,  
Ellipse and Hyperbola,  Simple  Geometric  transformations  such as Translation,  Rotation,  
Scaling.  
(iii)Boolean algebra : Basic operations, Evaluation of Boolean expressions, Basic postulates  
of Boolean  algebra . 
(iv)Trigonometry:  Simple identities, Trigonometric equations, Prope rties of Triangles, 
Inverse function.  
(v)Probability and statistics: Basic concept of probability theory,  averages, dependent and 
independent events, Frequency  distri butions and measures of dispersions,  skewness and 
Kurtosis, correlation and Regression,  Random  variables.  
 
(2)Computer Awareness  
(i)computer  Basics: organization of a computer,  central Processing  Unit (CPU), Input 
/output devices,  Computer Memory, Programming Languages,  Types  of Software's,  
General awareness about Internet.  Web Applications, Database Applications and Information 
systems.  
(ii)Data Representation:  Representation of Characters, Integers and Fractions, Binary, AS CII 
and Hexadecimal representation s. 
(iii)Binary Arithmetic:  Addition, subtraction, Multiplication, Division, TwoвҖҷs complement 
arithmetic,  Floating -point representation of numbers, normalized  Floating -point 
representation.  
(iv)Operating systems:  Evolution of operating syste ms, types of operating systems, functions 
of an  operating system, modern operating systems . 
 
(3) Analytical Ability and logical Reasoning  
Logical Reasoning, quantitative reasoning and visuospatial  reasoning .  
 
(4)General Awareness  
Awareness about Business,  Finance, Industry,  Transportation, Scientific inventions, 
Governance, Healthcare and  Cultural dimensions . Entrepreneur and Entrepren eurship, 
Business Communication . 
 
(5) General English  
Basic English grammar, vocabulary, comprehension,  synonyms, antonyms, sentence 
correction, word and phrases, jumbled  paragraph.  
 
 
 
